---

title: Microsoft Expands Dynamics 365 for Retail to deliver Unified Commerce
description: [Description]
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: 823691f8-93e8-4871-bc2c-d4246db7d821
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
Microsoft Expands Dynamics 365 for Retail to deliver Unified Commerce 
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Comprehensive update of its cloud service that enable retailers to optimize
their operations while enhancing engagement with consumers in stores, call
centers, online and via mobile*.*

**REDMOND, WA – October 1, 2018:** With 84% of consumers indicating that
retailers should do more to integrate their online and physical channels and 47%
of consumers desire consistent shopping experience across channels, retailers
must adapt their operations, systems and processes to not only meet the growing
demands of their customers but also engage deeply and inspire loyalty across all
their touchpoints. Microsoft (NASDAQ, “MSFT”) today announced the expansion of
Dynamics 365 for Retail solution, a comprehensive SaaS offering that enables
retailers to deliver consistent shopping experience across channels, predict and
adapt quickly to changing market needs and optimize their operations, while
leveraging investments in their existing systems and infrastructure.

Comprehensive omni-channel solution that is flexible, extensible and easily
updatable:

Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Retail is an end-to-end retail solution delivering
unified commerce encompassing sales, mobility, intelligence and productivity to
help retailers and workers achieve more. Dynamics 365 for Retail has already
supported Azure based cloud deployment as well as cloud and edge capabilities in
store that protects retailers against network disruptions and providing business
continuity. With the Fall 2018 release, Dynamics 365 for Retail extends the
deployment options even further through **on-premises deployment option**,
providing great flexibility to allow retailers who are unable to move to cloud
due to organization policies or regulatory requirements.

Retailers want to leverage standard applications while being able to customize
it to meet their business needs but have historically struggled to do it
sustainable way to meet their long-term needs. They are often ‘left behind’ with
a custom solution with very high cost to maintain and upgrade. Dynamics 365 for
Retail is cloud ready, **completely sealed application** with extension points
across HQ and front office to support various business processes. Fall 2018
release includes **expanded set of extension points and capabilities** across
the entire solution footprint. With this model, customers can uptake ongoing
innovations from Microsoft, delivered monthly, much more easily than ever before
while protecting their customizations and ISV solutions of choice.

Retailers require systems that are scalable, reliable and highly performant to
manage their business operations. Moreover, they need the ability to isolate and
be able to service their customer facing channels (stores, e-Commerce etc.) with
no downtime, ensuring no loss of sales and providing superior customer
experience. Fall 2018 expands the capabilities of **Retail Cloud Scale Unit**
that can now be deployed in **multiple Azure Data Centers** and in close
proximity to the channels, improving not only latency but also providing better
serviceability and reliability to business operations. In addition, retailers
get the benefit of getting their **updates much faster** than ever before while
having **exposure controls** through which they can experiment with newer
capabilities in their customer facing channels before they are fully rolled out
to across their global operations. “*Ensuring that our customers have
uninterrupted and engaging experiences in all of our channels is super critical
for our business. With Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Retail, we can not only have
scalable and reliable service, but having the ability to experiment with our
approaches before complete rollout is a game changer*” said Phillip Kennedy,
Director of IT at Pandora, that operates 2400 stores in over 100 countries

Improving core business processes and empowering employees:

End of day processing capabilities is super critical for retailers as it allows
them to manage their daily operations in store all the way to integrated
financials in the back office. Moreover, retailers need fast, reliable and
secure payment processing capabilities that works across their channels of
engagement with customers, enabling cross channel scenarios like buy online and
pick up in store with ease. With Fall 2018, Dynamics 365 for Retail has enhanced
the **integrated end of day processing** capabilities providing more reliable,
performant and scalable solution. In addition, the solution now incorporates a
more **comprehensive, secure and reliable omni-channel payment solution** that
can be leveraged by customers and partners around the world, while providing out
of box native payment connector for North America that supports wide variety of
processors and acquiring banks. “*We’re freeing up an awful lot of time because
of the efficiency that the system brings to the business*,” says Oscar
Grignolio, Group CIO, at Dolce & Gabbana, luxury goods retailer. “*The solution
gives us the ability to enable employees to manage shifts, share information,
process end of day tasks efficiently while eliminating manual processes and
outdated tools – both through Dynamics 365 for Retail in stores as well as in
back office*.”

Dynamics 365 for Retail is designed to increase sales and productivity for
retailers with an experience for fast and assisted selling, whether on the go or
while using a phone. The solution is designed from the start to work seamlessly
across tablets and phones from all major platforms (Windows, iOS and Android). 
In addition, retailers can choose the right device and form factor that suits
their needs. Turning data into intelligent action is a cornerstone of business
transformation. For instance, new machine learning based **personalization
service** helps sales associates recommend and predict their customers’ needs,
as well as surface insightful details in a non-intrusive, context-aware manner
“*Engaging and maintaining customer loyalty across channels requires insights
and exceptional experiences. Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Retail brings all the
necessary pieces together*,” said Matt Keays, CIO at Michael Hill, multi-brand
jewelry retailer.  “*The solution helps us maintain our focus on providing
exceptional customer experience across all channels and provide accurate and
timely information.  Our sales and customer service associates are thrilled with
the mobile experiences that allow them to get out on the sales floor with
customers and help them make the right purchasing decisions*.”

Enhanced Unified Commerce through Distributed Order Management :

Given retailers focus on transforming customer facing experiences and increasing
order capture channels, it is essential to optimize inventory and costs for
efficient fulfillment. Retailers struggle to provide accurate promise date,
evaluate alternate fulfillment options and optimally schedule orders for
fulfillment, impacting customer experience and service. Through **distributed
order management** capabilities, Dynamics 365 for Retail provides the ability to
intelligently source and fulfill orders across channels through single, global
view of inventory, locations, customer and fulfillment options through
configurable business rules. In addition, the fulfillment processes at stores
are significantly enhanced allowing retailers to convert them into
micro-warehouses helping drive costs down while improving customer service. “*We
have seen real cost reductions by optimally leveraging inventory across
locations to fulfill orders across – Dynamics 365 for Retail has significantly
improved our customer service and their shopping experiences, while minimizing
our inventory and fulfillment costs*” says Mike Busch, IT Director at Patagonia.

In addition, Dynamics 365 for Retail solution has improved core business
processes including inventory management and visibility at stores, data
distribution from HQ to stores, offline capabilities of POS, shifts, receipts,
returns and exchanges, omni-channel workflows as well as embedded business
intelligence capabilities in both HQ and stores leveraging rich visualizations
and real-time data. Muhammad Alam, General Manager at Microsoft, said
“*Retailers are tired of complex customizations, implementations that take
several months or years to use and get results and being left behind with custom
solution that is hard to upgrade. Having an Intelligent SaaS solution with rich
industry capabilities and great user experience, that can be easily updated with
rich eco-system of partner solutions available is game-changing.  It allows
retailers to focus on their business, improve top and bottom line, and fine tune
their operations to serve their customers better*”

Dynamics 365 for Retail solution in available in 36 markets worldwide. 
Customers can sign up for the free-trial and learn more about Dynamics 365 for
Retail solution at <http://www.microsoft.com/retail>.
