---

title: Overview
description: Overview
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: 42f4f1a9-cde4-48c2-8136-7d2993e86d73
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
#  Overview


[!include[banner](../../../includes/banner.md)]

**Dynamics 365 for Field Service enables enterprise grade, world-class service
engagement**    
 

REDMOND, WA October 31, 2018 

Driven by advancements in technology, consumers and businesses have increasingly
higher expectations for the on-site services they receive. They want increased
flexibility to request and schedule services, and they expect the job to be done
quickly and correctly the first time. They also want services which anticipate
their needs and are proactive. Organizations which provide on-site services have
opportunities to evolve and deepen customer relationships through more
intelligent and responsive field service.

With core capabilities meeting requirements across field service experiences,
enhanced by built-in intelligence and adaptable platform, Microsoft Dynamics 365
for Field Service helps organization to deliver differentiated field service
experiences to their customers.

**Field Service**

Our latest release further empowers field service organizations to provide more
advanced capabilities that match real-world scenarios. Work orders with multiple
resources (crews) can be defined and scheduled. Customer expectations can be
defined and met though entitlement and service level agreement (SLA)
functionality. The organization can be more efficient through more accurate work
durations based actual historical results. Advanced pricing functionality now
enables accurate cost tracking based on roles or other attributes. The new Power
BI Insights app enables a rich view of the field service operation by tracking
key performance indicators (KPIs). Field Service technicians will now be more
visible and effective with notification, chat bots and real-time location
tracking. This can all work seamlessly with the back office based on the
available integration across Dynamics 365 for Finance and Operations.

**Scheduling**

The market leading Dynamics 365 resource scheduling capabilities continue to
enrich the Field Service solution. It is now easier to embed scheduling
experiences to find the right resource, in the right place, in the right time
slot. This can occur, for example, within a customer support experience. It can
also be enabled in another customer-facing app such as a customer built Power
App leveraging the sample made available by Microsoft. Organizations now have
more flexibility to manage resource availability in the scheduling process.

There are new capabilities within Resource Scheduling Optimization (RSO) as
well. A new feature will enable weighting between optimization objectives.
Enhanced objectives will take preferred resources and skills matching into
account. A new action is available to (re)optimize a specific resource as
needed. Configuration of the RSO to unique business needs is made even easier in
this release with the enhanced “what if” capability and statistics.

**Connected Field Service**

The internet of things (IoT) continues to enable proactive and predictive
service. Connected Field Service and Microsoft Azure IoT Central continue to
evolve together to provide an intelligent software as a service (SaaS) for
connected devices. Building on previous integration, bi-directional flows are
now supported. For example, sending commands from Field Service though IoT
central to the device. The power of IoT is also extended to the technician with
embedded IoT Central visuals and measurements within the Field Service mobile
app. PowerBI visualizations can also be embedded elsewhere within Connected
Field Service. The technician can also now trigger commands to the device
directly though the mobile app.

**Customer Success**

This release has been driven by customer feedback and the features customers
need to roll out large-scale implementations. We look forward to seeing the wave
of implementations as customers transform their field service operations through
Dynamics 365 for Field Service autumn 2018 release.
