---

title: Overview
description: [Description]
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: 3b07967b-ee4c-4c68-919f-f1d20c2dbe28
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
Overview
--------



This fall is an important moment for the broader Dynamics SMB partner and
customer community. All products get unified under the same licensing model, on
premises and in the cloud. Dynamics 365 Business Central partners get a portal
to facilitate their interactions with customers and to manage the lifecycle of
their applications and customizations – Lifecycle Services (LCS). Business users
get a further streamlined and refreshed user experience with many productivity
improvements, facilitating heavy transactional users. The service is also going
through a hardening process, with much improved resiliency, robustness and
performance across the application.

**Dynamics SMB product unification** – This fall is the point in time where all
the SMB products get unified under the same licensing model of Business Central.
Business Central itself gets an on-premises deployment which will serve on
premises as a successor of Dynamics NAV. In other words, rather than Dynamics
NAV 2019, customers will get Business Central on premises. The experience for
partners and customers on premises will be no different from the yearly Dynamics
NAV upgrades, except for the change in name and licensing model. This is a
convergence point for Dynamics SMB products, from which point forward they will
be all considered customers of Business Central, in the cloud or on premises,
even if they are running legacy products such as Dynamics SL, Dynamics GP, and
older versions of Dynamics NAV.

**Lifecycle Services** – Business Central ISVs and VARs will receive support for
the lifecycle of embed, addon and connect apps, as well as customizations
through Lifecycle Services (LCS). Lifecycle Services will be the portal for ISVs
to engage with VARs and customers and for VARs to engage with ISVs and
customers. It will facilitate implementation projects, whitelisting VARs and ISV
add-ons, and full lifecycle management of ISV solutions and VAR customizations,
including live site troubleshooting.

**High productivity user experience** – Business users will get further
improvements to the modern and refreshed user experience. Card pages (such as
the customer card) will also get a refresh, completing the visual refresh of all
the application areas, with further refinements across the application.
Furthermore, the UX refresh will not stop at a visual refresh – the application
experiences will be adjusted, simplified and improved further, and the core
client capabilities will be significantly improved.

**Resilient and robust service** – With the scale at which the Business Central
service is run, we have made significant investments into the robustness and
resilience of the service. We have ensured that all the service components are
hardened to maximize the mean time to failure (MTTF), even in varying and
unpredictable conditions, while at the same time we have ensured that the
service is resilient in the case of failures so that it can recover quickly and
minimize or eliminate the disruption to customers by minimizing the mean time to
recovery (MTTR). The result is high availability, offering customers a
consistent and performant experience for their key business scenarios.
