---

title: Rich, immersive experiences
description: Power BI apps make the most of all the powerful Power BI functionality to create truly captivating analytics experiences.
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: e3e86465-731b-42ab-90ce-54ea8a1f03e1
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
#  Rich, immersive experiences 


[!include[banner](../../../includes/banner.md)]

Power BI apps make the most of all the powerful Power BI functionality to create
truly captivating analytics experiences. No application can answer every
possible question, so all Power BI apps come with natural language query
support. You can ask questions in the app or Cortana to get immediate insights
into your data.

![](media/rich-immersive-experiences-1.png "")
<!-- picture -->


If you would prefer your users to view their insights in the context of your
source application, you can embed Power BI wherever you choose. You will still
be able to customize your reports and leverage Power BI features like Q&A and
Quick Insights in the chrome of your choice.

We’re unleashing a number of new internally developed Power BI apps in the Fall
‘18 release, focused on providing insights for our customer's IT investments
including:

-   Office 365 Usage,

-   Mobile Device Analytics with InTune,

-   Identity Insights for Azure Active Directory, and

-   System Center Configuration Manager Analytics

The Office 365 Usage app shows activities across Office 365 products in your
organization such as Outlook, OneDrive and Skype. It enables you to drill in to
individual product and user level analytics to give you more granular insight
into the usage activity within each product.

InTune manages mobile devices and apps used within an organization that have
access to corporate data. With Mobile Device Analytics, you can see how such
devices are being used in your organization, enrollment, and app protection
policy.

Azure Active Directory is Microsoft’s cloud-based directory and identity
management service. With Identity Insights for Azure Active Directory, customers
can drill into how their users leverage corporate compute resources and how that
behavior changes over time.

System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) provides a suite of tools for
managing applications, software inventory, and malware protection. With SCCM
Analytics, IT Administrators not only gain fast and meaningful insights into
malware and endpoint protection trends over time, but can also pinpoint possible
causes of problems by applying AI to detect patterns across users, software and
updates.

In addition to the applications developed internally, we are proud to announce
the availability of applications provided by our partners including insurance
and investment solution provider CUNA Mutual Group, Retail Solutions Inc, and
Reddit. CUNA Mutual Group has made available a new Power BI App for the credit
union industry built on Power BI and Dynamics 365. AdvantEdge Analytics has
extended the common data model and leveraged standard connectors to populate the
data model from the line of business apps used by credit unions. Retail
Solutions Inc. provides Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG) companies insights from
Point of Sales (POS) and foot traffic data from the retailers carrying their
products. Reddit is extending the CDM to accommodate social media and providing
sophisticated analytics to spot social media trends on customers' products,
services, and people.

All new apps provide immediate “out of the box” value and can be customized to
meet the needs of your business.
