---

title: Sales performance at scale through productivity and collaboration
description: Sales performance at scale through productivity and collaboration
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: 3ed460dd-f051-4272-9f12-3f328991e0dc
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
#  Sales performance at scale through productivity and collaboration




[!include[banner](../../includes/banner.md)]

Transform sales team collaboration through tight integration with Microsoft
Teams



Today’s sales landscape has changed. Sales jobs are highly complex and require
faster collaboration with more people and more data. Previously, sales
professionals needed to use separate Office 365 applications to communicate,
share files and manage customer records. Setup often becomes center of friction
of the use and adoption as each of those applications needed to be integrated
separately with Dynamics and required complex setup routines.

Today, Dynamics 365 for Sales redesigns sales collaboration experience from the
ground up using Microsoft Teams to deliver a complete suite of productivity
tools that are tightly integrated for a cohesive experience.

Sales professionals can, with a single click from Dynamics 365, provision and
configure a connected Microsoft Teams channel to enable sales teams to
collaborate securely. Sales team members are synchronized from Dynamics 365 so
team members can readily collaborate in the Microsoft Teams channel for a
coherent integrated experience across Dynamics 365 and Office 365.

With the connected Microsoft Teams channel, sales teams can communicate more
effectively through persistent chat sessions across the Microsoft Teams and
Dynamics 365 record, ensuring no one misses the latest conversations.

Users can share and co-author sales collaterals with their entire team
seamlessly from either Microsoft Teams or Dynamics 365. Files get stored in one
central location ensuring the entire team has easy, consistent and secure access
to the latest documents

 

 

Empower sellers with Playbooks driven by event-driven sales activities



Dynamics 365 for Sales is introducing **Playbooks**, a brand-new capability to
help organizations automate repeatable sales activities and respond to external
events.

In the Age of the Customer, buyers have the upper hand in the relationship with
sellers. With nearly limitless access to information, they can dictate their own
customer journeys, rather than follow a pre-defined business process. It is thus
important to move from a reactive process-driven data repository on systems of
record to proactive and predictive event-driven guidance engines that can
suggest next best actions and surface relevant sales activities to successfully
respond to external events.

One possible real-world application of Playbooks is the following scenario: if a
decision maker and top champion of the product leaves the organization in the
middle of a deal, this can become an event with the potential to jeopardize the
entire commercial transaction. With Playbooks, however, automation can trigger a
play that creates a set of tasks and activities needed to remedy the situation.
A task to reach out to current contacts at the customer account and identify the
new stakeholder could be immediately followed by an introductory phone call to
better understand the new stakeholder’s priorities. This carefully crafted
orchestration of activities ensures that the new decision maker is successfully
identified and turned into a new champion for the product so that the deal can
be salvaged.

The new capabilities released allow organizations to:

-   Configure Playbooks against any Dynamics 365 entity

-   Define the set of tasks and activities to automate once triggered

-   Track the status progress of running Playbooks against their outcome,
    successful or not

Build intelligent sales applications and business processes powered by LinkedIn
insights



Dynamics 365 applications powered by LinkedIn insights are taken to the next
level by combining the modular and customizable **LinkedIn Sales Navigator
controls** with the power and flexibility of **Dynamics 365 Business Process
Flows**. Any business process, including the sales scenarios, can be created or
enhanced to feature LinkedIn insights about people and companies, which help
information workers complete the stages and steps accurately and quickly,
driving the sales deals and other processes forward towards a successful
conclusion. The insights include:

-   Fundamental data about companies including size, industry, and location

-   Fundamental data about people including name, company, position, and years
    of experience

-   Icebreakers and conversation starters, which are the key common aspects to
    start the conversation with a warm engagement

-   Path to a warm introduction with connection lists that include 1st, 2nd and
    LinkedIn TeamLink connections that reaches beyond the information worker’s
    network by traversing their entire organization and the aggregate networks

-   Recommendations for people similar to a target lead or that play a key role
    in an organization

In addition to Dynamics 365 Unified Client forms and business processes on
desktop, the LinkedIn insights are now available on phone and tablet with the
**Dynamics 365 mobile app**. This enables information workers to fully leverage
the intelligence available to successfully close sales deals and other business
processes on the go and across form factors.
