---

title: Overview
description: Dynamics 365 Portal enables organizations to easily extend entities, features and functions of Dynamics 365 to external audiences like customers, partners etc.
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: 4f672e28-56d9-49f9-9b0e-199df6c3ff44
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
#  Overview


[!include[banner](../../../includes/banner.md)]

Dynamics 365 Portal enables organizations to easily extend entities, features
and functions of Dynamics 365 to external audiences like customers, partners
etc. In the Spring 2018 release, we primarily focused on fundamentals and
compliance to make the portal service more robust and to meet GDPR and
Accessibility requirements. In the Fall 2018 release, while continuing our focus
on fundamentals, we are also investing in integrating portal with other
Microsoft assets and in simplifying the Customization experience of Portal.

**Fundamentals**

Our focus is on making Dynamics 365 Portal a highly dependable service across
parameters like Performance, Reliability, Supportability and engineering
fundamentals. In this release, we are making changes to measure availability,
reliability and performance based on user scenarios, reduce the cache update
latency, improve the reliability of portal provisioning, improve diagnostics
apart from investing in engineering fundamentals to support a highly agile
deployment model.

**Integration with other Microsoft services**

We are focused on providing a seamless and consistent experience to portal users
using Office 365 and other Microsoft services. With our *SharePoint
Integration*, Portal users can upload and view documents into the SharePoint
library enabling businesses to leverage their investments in SharePoint. In
addition, we are providing the ability to *embed Power BI charts* within Portal
allowing users to benefit from the interactive visualizations of Power BI.

**Usability**

Most if not all customers end up customizing their Portal, to meet their unique
look and feel and process needs. We are reimagining the administration and
customization experiences to make them simple, intuitive and modern.

**Insights**

Portal Insights on CDS-A is a package of Power BI charts that provide actionable
information on Community Usage, KB Usage and customer journey.
