---

title: Best in class sales experiences with multi-platform applications
description: [Description]
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: 890a1f5f-3b4e-4ac8-911a-03e5129f3e51
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
Best in class sales experiences with multi-platform applications
----------------------------------------------------------------

Transforming the Inside Sales and Service call center productivity with
Artificial Intelligence on Dynamics 365 and other sales applications



The Microsoft Call Intelligence for Sales app enables smart summarization of
calls, empowers better sales coaching, and boosts sales conversion rates. By
connecting call centers telephony and dialer recording systems to the app, sales
teams can start generating data with tremendous value from the organization’s
existing assets.

The following are the key benefits of the app:

-   Sales coaching driven by aggregate call statistics on keyword mentions,
    tracker mentions,

-   customer sentiments, conversational KPIs and action items

-   Complete call transcription even on low-quality mono channel recording files

-   Deep understanding of product needs, competition, budget or pricing mentions
    via keywords in the form of brands and common sales vocabulary detection

-   Detection of whether relevant custom trackers for the organization are being
    discussed during sales conversations

-   Call sentiment recognition that helps gauge customer satisfaction

-   Benchmark against conversational KPIs such as talk to listen ratio, longest
    customer monologue, and participant switch ratio which signal whether sales
    professionals are attaining to conversation best practices

-   Individual call insights inspection for Dynamics 365 customers

Existing Dynamics 365 organizations feature full integration with the Microsoft
Call Intelligence for Sales platform through embedded insights. Organizations
running other platforms can still use Microsoft Call Intelligence for Sales to
generate call insights and boost the output of their sales teams.

Enhanced Gamification drives performance by fostering collaboration and friendly
competition on Dynamics 365 and other leading business applications



Without a doubt, the fastest way to win more deals and drive more revenue is to
tap the full potential of sales teams. But that potential can easily be left
untapped when organizations fail to motivate or promote the right behaviors
among sellers and other information workers. Whereas traditional incentive
programs and even modern Gamification apps aim to leverage the competitive
nature of people to motivate them, they end up rewarding the same top performers
time after time, leaving the laggards discouraged.

Over the years, Microsoft Dynamics 365 Gamification has differentiated itself
from all other apps by offering an innovative “fantasy league” type of game that
is inclusive and keeps everyone motivated and involved. This team-based element
eliminates the me-first mentality in a way that everyone benefits and even the
weaker members can still feel part of the team.

Today, Microsoft is announcing that **Dynamics 365 Gamification is open for
all**, including new services and scenarios. Organizations will be able to
create engaging games to improve call center satisfaction or even games to
promote the adoption of a new learning platform. Gamification is no longer
limited to data in your Dynamics 365 database; **integrations to first-party
Microsoft and other services on the Common Data Model** are now available.

Organizations will benefit from the excellent features that Gamification
provides:

-   Live leaderboards, updated in real time, keeping everybody engaged with
    what’s happening

-   Reactions (BAMs) to colleagues’ achievements allowing public recognition of
    that persons’ good work

-   Streams of real-time performance data and employee recognition to TV screens
    across the office

-   Flexible options for designing inclusive games, assigning points,
    distributing badges, and giving out prizes

-   **Easy setup**, no matter the service

-   Built as a **Progressive Web App** (PWA), users can access games, rankings
    and prizes from web browsers on desktop and phones, natively on mobile
    devices and even directly as a Windows App

No matter the application provider, organizations will be able to engage and
motivate teams in a fun and interactive way to successfully push them to
accomplish their performance goals. Starting today, you can purchase
**subscriptions to the Gamification service** and enable teams to tap their full
potential.
