---

title: Strategic decision making powered by sales intelligence and analytics
description: [Description]
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: 49916fb0-e816-4475-8255-9ce1dccdf714
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
Strategic decision making powered by sales intelligence and analytics
---------------------------------------------------------------------



Enhance sales performance and improve sales planning with Sales Insights powered
by Power BI



The Power BI Sales Insights app takes the sales pipeline analysis to the next
level by not only providing deep descriptive details, but also enhancing it with
predictive elements that help sales teams take proactive measures to boost sales
performance on Dynamics 365 and other sales applications. With more accurate
sales forecasting using predictive scores and churn measurement using
relationship health scores, sales leaders can better plan their future sales
strategies.

The following are the key enhancements being surfaced from the core sales app to
Power BI:

-   Dashboard that provides quick overview of lead and opportunity pipeline,
    sales team’s current performance and forecast, overall customer engagement
    and deals at risk

-   NLP based Q&A enriched with sales ontology

-   Lead prioritization leveraging predictive lead scoring

-   Opportunity pipeline analysis including revenue forecasting leveraging
    predictive opportunity score

-   Churn analysis based on the opportunities and accounts at risk data and
    using the relationship health score powered by exchange data

-   Sales performance analysis driven by win-loss measures

-   Richer sales activity reports using relationship analytics and bringing
    valuable data from Exchange and Dynamics 365 graphs

Bring more data and insights into Relationship Analytics and Relationship
Assistant

Today, Relationship Assistant brings powerful new capabilities to Dynamics 365
for Sales, such as new contacts in the system, alerts on employee changes,
reminder on closed lost opportunities, alert on compelling event on open
opportunities, firmographic data and news about competitors, and e-mail
mentions.

Relationship Analytics is reaching general availability. Included is enhanced
team-based next and last interaction, which benefit all sales team members by
giving them visibility into their team’s last interactions before connecting
with customers.

Get introduced to prospects and convert a cold call into a warm engagement using
the Who Knows Whom connection graph



The goal of the sales professional is to win more deals and exceed the quota.
They can win more deals if they can easily qualify the leads by having an
introduction to a lead or prospect, and then convert those opportunities into
deals by identifying stakeholders or decision makers from the buyer using their
connection graph.

The following are the key benefits and capabilities of the app using the
connection graph:

-   Get introduced to a prospect or lead and help converting a cold call into a
    warm engagement

-   Identify internal people who already have relationship with external
    stakeholders and business decision makers

-   Understand relationship strength based on the relationships that internal
    people have with external people, and select the key people to build
    customer relationships

Increase sales conversions by focusing efforts on deals that have higher
likelihood to win and improve sales planning with accurate forecasting using
Dynamics 365 Predictive Opportunity Scoring



The Dynamics 365 Predictive Opportunity Scoring add-on is a machine
learning-based predictive scoring model that scores opportunities on a scale of
1 to 100 based on their likelihood to become a winning deal. This score enables
sales teams to focus their efforts on deals that have higher likelihood to win,
thereby boosting sales conversion rates. The score combined with estimated
revenue of the opportunity allows for better sales planning by enabling more
accurate revenue forecasting.

The following are the key benefits of this product capability:

-   Out of box machine learning model that considers attributes from related
    entities apart from the attributes of the opportunity entity, including
    custom attributes

-   Predictive score that absorbs the engagement metrics on emails and meetings
    from Microsoft Exchange

-   Prediction score backed by top score contribution factors

-   Visibility on gaps that can be filled in current opportunity by looking at
    the score and reasons of a comparative golden opportunity

-   Better revenue forecasting by using the score, enabling the likelihood to
    win scenario, combined with estimated revenue of the opportunity

-   Ability to select/de-select signals for the model, allowing for model
    customization and tuning

-   Filtering of data for the model allowing multiple models in the system

Stay on top of the sales opportunity pipeline health by complementing the
signals from email systems with LinkedIn and PointDrive activities



By combining the engagement data from productivity and email systems with
activity data coming from LinkedIn and PointDrive, Relationship Analytics
provide a much more accurate view of the communication and engagement health
score of a sales deal in the opportunity pipeline. Information workers benefit
from a holistic analysis of their engagements across all channels and can better
determine their next best action.

With PointDrive activity cards on Relationship Insights, information workers
track and get notified when their sales content that was packaged and shared on
the professional and branded PointDrive landing pages was viewed by the buyer.
With this insight, information workers never miss when the deal has gained
traction and can move fast to take it to the next step and towards a successful
conclusion.
