---

title: Better Together 
description: [Description]
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: e3a95dd9-d411-4f7a-a2cf-80553cdb6515
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
### Better Together:

Integration of Project Service Automation with Finance and Operations: Allows
for project management and resource management activities to be done in Project
Service Automation, while the project accounting and revenue recognition occurs
in Finance and Operations. Integration templates are available for project
contracts, projects, estimates and actuals. The next phases of template releases
include:

-   **Project-based travel expenses:** provides support for project-based travel
    expenses to be created, submitted, approved, and reimbursed in Finance and
    Operations and mark-up pricing added using Project Service Automation.

-   **Work breakdown structure:** provides support to manage the planning of
    your project in Project Service Automation and sync to Finance and
    Operations in scenarios where revenue recognition is based on a scheduled
    plan.

-   **Billing:** provides support for the project managers in Project Service
    Automation to select the billable project time and expenses that are ready
    to be billed and generate invoice proposals in Finance and Operations for
    the finance team to invoice.

Integration with Dynamics 365 for Field Service – Inventory and Projects:
Integration with CDS data integration will be provided to support scenarios
where Field service activities are done outside of Dynamics 365 for Finance and
Operations.

This phase focuses on giving field technicians insight to the inventory
information from Finance and Operations, allowing them update inventory levels
and do material transfers. In addition, companies installing or servicing sold
goods will benefit from better control and visibility to the full sales and
service process with integration from projects.

Functionality includes integration of:

-   Warehouse information

-   On-hand inventory information

-   Inventory transfers

-   Inventory adjustments

-   Dynamics 365 for Finance and Operations projects connected with Dynamics 365
    for Field Service work orders

The CDS data integrator synchronizes data by using customizable projects.
Standard templates can be used to create custom integration projects, where
additional standard and custom fields and entities can be mapped to adjust the
integration and meet specific business needs. The field service integration
builds on top of the existing rospect-to-cash functionality.

Data from entities readily available in the cloud – no need to BYOD

Data from key transactional and Master entities are available in the Azure cloud
and is accessible for read scenarios. As data is modified in Finance and
Operations, the same data is updated in the cloud within minutes. This data can
be either downloaded to your own on-premise database or can be reported on using
Power BI and other BI tools in-place. This option greatly reduces the need to
use the BYOD feature to export data into your own data warehouse using an Azure
SQL database

 

Extend analytical workspaces by mashing up external data with PowerBI.com

While report visuals and layout changes can be done in the client, for extension
scenarios such as mashing up external data or creating calculations, power users
can deploy the analytical workspace into their own PowerBI.com subscription.
They can use the full power of Power BI to make customizations to reports
including use of the Power BI mobile app and the Power BI Q&A feature.

 

Entity store is available in PowerBI.com as datapools – enables mashing up of
external data with business data from Finance and Operations

Datapools (code name CDS-A) is a new feature in Power BI. Entity store (the
operational datastore available in Finance and Operations) is available and
accessible within PowerBI.com as a datapool. Power BI users can mash up business
data including financials, inventory, and retail data with other data sources
including data from devices and sensors, and create rich reports and machine
learning models.

Regulatory configuration service: The regulatory configuration tool (known as
Electronic Reporting) is now an independent service. This service allows
partners and customers using multiple versions of Finance and Operations and
earlier Dynamics AX versions (such as Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 and Microsoft
Dynamics AX 2009, for India only) to configure regulatory features only once and
use one common service for various versions. The regulatory configuration
service targets a no-code programming approach, allowing power users to
configure frequently-changed legal requirements for regulatory reports,
e-invoices, payment formats and tax rules, rather than writing code in multiple
applications. Regulatory configuration service is the first component of
Regulatory Services, providing regulatory functionality that can be integrated
with any business application. This service allows developers building
applications to focus on their core functionality rather than worrying about
meeting the increasing number of legal requirements around the globe.

Regulatory Configuration Service has the following capabilities:

-   provides an independent access to visual designers to configure regulatory
    reports, e-invoices, payment formats, tax rules, and other regulatory
    features;

-   provides users with a new workspace to show, filter, and search both
    configurable and non-configurable regulatory features by functional area
    (regulatory blueprint), country, and configuration provider to allow users
    to quickly navigate in the growing number of regulatory configurations;

-   supports regional deployments to enable users to select what region their
    data is held in.

Translation Service: With this release, we improved both the user interface and
content translation experience and productivity by adding pseudo-localization
capability for user interface testing, improving project management, making
generally available the automation of content localization production workflow
as well as adding translation support for BPM and Task Guides. 


