---

title: Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Talent modernizes candidate and employee experiences
description: Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Talent modernizes candidate and employee experiences
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: 0801a891-41e3-4eef-96a8-5ece41274fb6
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
#  **Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Talent modernizes candidate and employee experiences**




[!include[banner](../../includes/banner.md)]

*Microsoft doubles-down on candidate and employee experience innovations by
expanding Dynamics 365 for Talent and creating rich integration opportunities
for partners.*

October 1st, 2018 – Available today: Dynamics 365 for Talent now includes a
fully compliant applicant tracking system (ATS), comprehensive onboarding,
employee learning, and new benefits, compensation, workforce, and organization
management capabilities. This latest release opens the door for Dynamics
partners to extend Talent and bring additional capabilities to the Common Data
Service (CDS). On top of extensibility on CDS, Talent has released an Insights
app leveraging all the data and augmentation that CDS-A provides.

**Streamlined, intelligent, and compliant recruiting**

Dynamics 365 for Talent: Attract is winning over recruiters and streamlining
their workflow by bringing together Dynamics, Office 365, Skype and LinkedIn in
ways that no other provider can. Dynamics 365 for Talent consolidates sourcing,
talent engagement, screening, scheduling, offer management and onboarding
activities into one modern and extensible suite.

Intelligent recruiting is now a reality. Attract uses Azure Machine Learning to
highlight qualified candidates by comparing their profiles to your job
requirements. The best fit candidates are clustered together to simplify the
review process. Candidate profiles now include video cover letters, resumes, and
recorded interviews. Microsoft Stream transcribes, localizes, and summarizes
candidate videos making them fully searchable. Skype makes interviews more
collaborative by adding a shared whiteboard and coding environment for real time
technical exercises.

Recruiters no longer have to choose between convenience and compliance because
Attract is now fully EEO and OFCCP certified for US hiring. Hiring templates can
be customized per job to enable global customers to account for regional hiring
differences. Attract can also connect to DocuSign and Adobe sign to capture
digital signatures that are legally binding in nearly every country.

**Create a personalized onboarding experience for every new hire**

Dynamics 365 for Talent: Onboard delivers the best of both worlds for
onboarding: “top down” *and* “bottom up.” Easily drive onboarding consistency
through improved templates and distribution options. Fully integrate department
or team onboarding with administrative onboarding into a single modern
experience. Measure reach and content effectiveness with *PowerBI* reporting.
Custom add-ons and industry-specific templates now available on AppSource from
Partners and ISVs who have built on the new Onboard REST APIs.

**Help employees maximize their potential**

Dynamics 365 for Talent: Learn is a new product focused on developing employees
through experiences that make them more successful at work or on the go from
their mobile devices.

The consumerization of content has made it easier for people to access
information but enterprise learning systems have struggled to make the leap.
Employees are turning to search engines and online content for learning because
they can’t find what they are looking for to help them at work. If they do find
relevant content, it’s not mobile friendly.

Dynamics 365 for Talent: Learn will surface content that is easily discoverable
and consumable in the ways that learners need. Learning is made social using
Microsoft Teams. Learners can ask questions directly to instructors, experts
within your organization, and others who share common interests. Using Azure
Machine Learning, Learn can recommend dynamic content from verified content
providers targeted by industry or skill to help learners level up

This shift from content creation to content curator allows the L&D team to move
away from worrying about content to maximizing learner consumption. Armed with
insights, administrators can empower lines of business with learner consumption
data, and how their new-found skills can achieve business objectives.

**Employee empowerment and improved HR**

Dynamics 365 for Talent: HR continues to push administrative processes from the
HR Pro to the employee. This effort not only enables the employee to have better
control and management of personal information but streamlines the process by
removing the HR bottleneck. HR is continued to be freed from administrative
tasks, to make more time for more strategic efforts.

**Employee-driven benefits management**

Company offered benefits continue to be a key component when attracting and
retaining top talent. HR continues to look for ways to reduce complexity and
improve efficiency in their benefit management systems.  Talent simplifies
benefit creation with the addition of customizable rate tables and easy to
configure enrollment guides. Employees manage their own benefit elections as
they are onboarded, or as life events occur using easy and intuitive enrollment
guides.  The flexibility of Talent streamlines the entire setup and election
process while providing a connected experience across benefit providers.  

**Flexible organizational management**

To run a multinational company at optimal efficiency it’s imperative to have the
right people in the right place. Varying organizational structures across
multiple locations can make this difficult.  Talent delivers a flexible solution
for managing these unique structures whether your jobs and positions are global
or regionally specific.  It can also be challenging to manage the employee life
cycle across multiple regions. With Talent, managing these processes can be
tailored to your company’s specific needs

**Collaborative compensation processing**

Compensation can be a complex and time-consuming process. The rewards given to
employees need to factor in the market, budgets, employee performance, and it
all needs to come together within a constrained timeline. Talent streamlines the
management of compensation with a flexible transparent process including HR and
managers. HR can now make proactive recommendations, and managers make informed
changes while staying within the guidelines provided. Analytics built into the
solution help to identify outliers and eliminate potential bias while guiding
both managers and HR professionals along the way.

**Workforce management that works for you**

Core HR now provides an intuitive way for employees to submit and track their
time off. Democratization of time logging enables more accurate schedules
enabling managers to make better scheduling and resourcing decisions. Employee
satisfaction is improved with minimized last-minute schedule changes.

HR professionals now have tools to create flexible leave and absence rules and
policies to meet company compliance expectations while simplifying the time off
process. Employees and managers can see who will be at work while HR
professionals have a view of the entire organization all through a modern
calendar experience. Talent also partners with key Time and Attendance providers
to deliver seamless time entry and tracking that meets regional and regulatory
compliance needs.

**Digital transformation of HR at your own pace**

Many companies struggle today to transform their HR experiences especially since
they currently run on a multitude of disparate system. Customers can now bring
all their systems together to the Common Data Service to slowly or quickly
transform their employee experiences and HR Processes. Customers can now

start to consolidate their systems while transforming at their own pace and
achieving a single view of their HR data across all systems. Talent is designed
to enable flexible and scalable solutions that adapt to a business’s continuing
evolution. Create intuitive solutions for employees by leveraging common data
services and use Power Apps, Microsoft Flow, and Power BI to extend and analyze
data.  Companies can also integrate their 3rd party systems, such as payroll and
time and attendance with Talent to provide employees with a seamless experience.

**Talent Insights and People 360 enables leaders to become data-driven business
decision makers**

>    

HR leaders struggle to get insight into their organizations or the success of
the HR initiatives they are running to see if the intended impact is landing.
From current candidate interest in their company, to gender, age or ethnicity
diversity, upskilling success of employees, and even attrition distribution
across your company, Talent Insights will provide visibility into what’s going
on with your people. The app is built on the People 360 model of the Analytical
Common Data Service where people information has been standardized and augmented
with rich sources like Bing, and Office 365. This data is also augmentable with
custom sources like external HRIS systems. Talent Insights quickly takes a
company from no visibility into employee health across all areas of HR, to a
mature set of industry leading people analytics
