---

title: Data Integration Press Release
description: Data Integration Press Release
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: 5d9399a9-e13e-4380-aa8d-e68451acd49f
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
#  Data Integration Press Release 


[!include[banner](../../../includes/banner.md)]

Microsoft’s Data Integration Platform continues the momentum around its
connector ecosystem and differentiated hybrid gateway capabilities in Fall 2018
release enabling enterprises to integrate and unify  
data from a wide-range of data sources into the Common Data Services (CDS) while
conforming to the Common Data Model (CDM).



![](media/index-1.png "")
<!-- picture -->


>   *Data Integration brings data from 100s of sources into the Common Data
>   Services, allowing for improved and simplified integration, enrichment of
>   data, and intelligence across the platform.*

**REDMOND, WA – October 1, 2018** – Today Microsoft announced several
improvements to its Data Integration functionality that support the Dynamics 365
platform, thereby enabling richer connectivity to various Microsoft and 3rd
party applications and services. There are key innovations in the following five
areas:

1.  Simpler & smarter transformation and integration of enterprise data with
    Power Query and Data Integration Platform

2.  Easier sharing, unification, and enrichment of data with Common Data Model
    entities

3.  Richer and more unified connector & developer ecosystem

4.  Enhanced administrator capabilities for Data Gateway and Data Integration

5.  Improved fundamentals across the platform – security, single sign-on,
    reliability & performance

These innovations enable organizations to overcome inefficiencies of siloed,
incomplete data, and to easily converge and combine them across multiple
Microsoft and 3rd party applications in the cloud and on-premises. The built-in
data integration experiences reduce the time, complexity, and cost of collecting
transactional and observational data, and simplify transforming and unifying
data for business applications and gaining insights faster. This does not
require hard-to-find specialist expertise but can be performed directly by users
who have the business context of the data. Their Power Query skills from Excel
and Power BI seamlessly apply across the Dynamics platform.

**Simpler & smarter transformation and integration of enterprise data with Power
Query and Data Integration Platform**

Microsoft is leveraging its leadership in the Artificial Intelligence field,
based on years of investment in several projects within Microsoft Research, and
surfacing Smart Data Preparation capabilities within Power Query, making them
easily accessible to millions of business users across different Microsoft
products and services (Excel, Power BI, CDS for Apps, CDS for Analytics, and
Microsoft Flow). Business Analysts can now easily incorporate AI driven insights
with a single-click access to AI-based transforms. This includes sentiment
analysis and keyword extraction from natural language text.

With major enhancements to the SAP Business Warehouse connector, the Fall
release elevates Power BI to parity and, in several cases, ahead of other
third-party BI vendors in terms of connectivity to SAP Business Warehouse (BW).
In addition, the existing SAP HANA connector has been improved for complex
enterprise deployments, to support Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)
based Single Sign-On, and SSL certificate validation. SAP has formally certified
both of Microsoft’s connectors for SAP BW and SAP HANA.

Data Integration Templates accelerate getting data to the Common Data Services
from popular line-of-business applications and SaaS services. For example, the
Salesforce template helps customers integrate their Salesforce data with no-code
into CDS and gain insights into their opportunities and sales pipeline easily.
Customers and ISVs can leverage the same underlying platform to easily build
their own new integration templates and share them across CDS instances, as well
as customize existing templates to their needs and re-package them as new
templates for reuse.

**Easier sharing, unification, and enrichment of data with Common Data Model
entities**

The open-source Common Data Model definition of standard entities has been
enhanced for the integration of business processes, applications, and profile
enrichment across sales, services, marketing, operations, finance, talent, and
commerce business functions, as well as core entity profiles for customers,
products and people to support observational data enrichment and analysis.

This includes enabling organizations to enrich their data with high value
sources from their own enterprise communication (such as interactions with their
customers via Microsoft Office 365), website clickstreams, product telemetry,
social network interactions, and partner integration such as Adobe Experience
Cloud (Adobe XDM), and others.

The Common Data Model enables unification of data in a well-known form with
structural and semantic consistency across applications and deployments. There
is a large and growing collection of solutions that work together
efficiently when data is stored in the Common Data Model form. This sharing of
data and insights means you can quickly implement new business processes,
analytical solutions, and gain a true 360-degree view into your business
operations without complexity.

Since the initial release in March, the public Common Data Model GitHub
repository has grown substantially with well-defined, modular, and extensible
business entities, including major extensions to support additional vertical
industries with the Common Data Model and Common Data Services, in close
collaboration with strategic partners, such as in the HealthCare industry. The
no-code/low-code data integration, transformation, and enrichment experiences
with Power Query support and implement the Common Data Model.

**Richer and more unified connector & developer ecosystem**

A critical part of Data Integration, and the suite of products and cloud
services it supports, is connectivity to external data sources, with 80+ deep
and rich built-in data connectors, and 250+ API connectors to popular services.
To ensure users can connect to the data they need, the Data Integration team
continues to invest in connector extensibility throughout the platform. Until
recently, developers and ISVs looking to build for our platform were not able to
do so without significant investment and little reuse. Today’s release includes
a wide variety of improvements for ISVs and developers to build, test and
release their connector across Power BI, PowerApps, Flow, Logic Apps and Common
Data Services for Apps and Analytics. Now a single connector that works across
the full platform can be developed from scratch or created from an existing
OpenAPI or OData definition. ISVs can submit their connectors for certification
and release and we’re actively working on an Office Store integration for a
community developer solution.

**Enhanced administrator capabilities for Data Gateway and Data Integration**

Self-service administration, as well as departmental and IT administrators are a
key audience of our data integration experiences, and customers continue to
report how their ability to manage the products directly affect the experience
for end users. This announcement includes a set of improvements for
administrators using on-premises data gateways and/or data integration in the
Common Data Services. Gateway enhancements include reliable and enterprise grade
hybrid connectivity, private Virtual Network integration with Azure Storage and
Azure SQL, and improved data source management including closing feature gaps
compared to the Power BI Desktop.

In addition, Microsoft has continually evolved its hybrid on-premises
connectivity offering, by expanding the scope to support hybrid scenarios for
PowerApps, Flow, Logic Apps, Azure Analysis Services and Common Data Services
for Apps and Analytics. Part of this expansion has encouraged decoupling the
gateway from the Power BI service, to allow the gateway to evolve more quickly
to meet market needs.

The data integration improvements in CDS for admins include management
experiences for templates, a detailed dashboard about integration job executions
and history, and performance improvements across the board.  


**Improved fundamentals across the platform – security, compliance, single
sign-on, reliability & performance**

The Data Integration Platform is striving to offer the best possible quality, in
terms of performance, scalability, reliability and supportability.

As part of this release, the connectors are now available across a wider range
of Azure regions, including Brazil and Mooncake. The platform continues to
provide greater than 99.9% reliability across all connectors and all regions and
as the usage continues to grow, the performance and scaling behavior of all
connectors across the platform keeps improving.

The On-Premises Data Gateway high availability capabilities are now available in
GA and new load-balancing features for improved connectivity and performance are
now available in preview. In addition, one of the top enterprise features asks
for the Gateway has been answered: SAML single-sign-on to SAP HANA, and Kerberos
single-sign-on for a wide range of connectors (SQL Server, SAP HANA, SAP BW,
Oracle, Teradata, HDInsight Spark, Spark, Impala), including improved
step-by-step documentation and self-diagnostics tools.

This release also announced the Data Integration services are fully compliant
with GDPR and Grade-C accessibility requirements.

**Detailed description of the five areas of innovation:**
