---

title: Overview
description: Overview
author: MargoC
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 5/14/2018
ms.assetid: 557af355-3198-4b9d-b0e2-49b9533df482
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: business-applications
ms.technology: 
ms.author: margoc
audience: Admin

---
#  Overview 




[!include[banner](../../../includes/banner.md)]

**Omni-channel Engagement**  
 

REDMOND, WA October 31, 2018 

Customers are increasingly demanding that the companies serve their needs and
answer their requirements quickly, efficiently, and accurately. The standard
interactions across traditional channels are being replaced by blended
experiences that seamlessly transition across channels with customer
expectations of personalized, contextual service.  Organizations are now
striving for holistic customer engagement across various touchpoints
including self-service, agent driven service, peer-2-peer service, and on-site
service dispatch.

With core capabilities meeting requirements across these different customer
touchpoints, enhanced by built-in intelligence and adaptable platform, Microsoft
Dynamics 365 for Customer Service helps customers to deliver seamless,
personalized experiences to their users.   

Introducing the Omni-Channel Engagement capabilities for Dynamics 365, a cloud
service that extends the power of Dynamics 365 for Customer Service to enable
customers to instantly connect and engage with their customers via multiple
channels: live web chat, secured messaging, SMS and co-browse.  

Omni-Channel Engagement provides a modern, customizable high-productivity app
that allows agents to engage with audiences across different channels via a
unified interface. This app offers contextual customer identification,
integrated follow-on actions (e.g. create a case / lead) and real-time
conversation alerts to ensure agents are working on the most relevant engagement
channels. Supervisors get real-time visibility and insights into the operational
efficiency of agents and the utilization across various channels. The
enterprise-grade routing and work distribution engine allows customers to
configure agent presence, availability, preferred channels and priorities
depending on specific business needs. 

In addition to enabling operational efficiency and visibility, Omni Channel
delivers intelligent insights comprising information gathered across various
engagement channels and the underlying business data. It also enables
supervisors to manage agent productivity and channel efficiency by creating,
managing and tracking relevant channel-specific and cross-channel KPI 

 

**Dynamics Service Health for Customer Service** 

Feature-rich and highly extensible customer service apps, operating on an
adaptable platform facilitate the customer to meet various, complex business use
cases. The criticality of these use cases and their impact on the business
necessitate high availability and quick remediation in case of failure.  Our
latest release empowers service organizations by enabling effective monitoring
of the service reliability and functionality, helping them to self-heal
potential issues even before they impact productivity. Additionally, System
integrators (SI) will be able to deliver best in class customizations to end
customers by ensuring that the customization/ implementation is compliant to the
best practices. The investments made in this domain also enable the Dynamics 365
team to proactively monitor any degradations and move towards solving them
before any impact on productivity.  These dedicated investments in fundamentals
will ensure robust, reliable performance through reduced down-time, improved
performance, granular tracking of issues, leading to reduction and faster
resolution of issues.  

**Unified Service Desk ** 

Unified Service Desk for Microsoft Dynamics 365 provides a configurable
framework for quickly building applications for call centers so that agents can
get a unified view of the customer data stored in Microsoft Dynamics 365.  As
part of this release, USD will now allow the customers to host web applications,
including CRM web client and Unified Interface pages, using the Edge process.
This improves performance and reliability with CRM pages in Unified Client, with
load time significantly faster in Edge as compared to IE. 

>    

**Intelligent Insights and Actions**



While servicing cases, Customer service representatives (CSR) get intelligent
insights such as suggestions on similar cases and knowledge articles that help
them resolve cases quickly with higher customer satisfaction. Customer Service
Insights app built leveraging Power BI atop CDS-A provides insight into business
process effectiveness to customer service managers (CSMs). CSMs get insights on
optimizing operations through KPIs such as average handling time (AHT), first
call resolution (FCR). Automated case-classification/assignment and quality
monitoring based on intelligence derived out of interaction data in CDS-A,
enable customer service organization in reducing the cost of operations as well
improving the quality of customer engagement.
